# MemBrainGen
MemBrainGen (Image memorability all phases)

  Some images are more memorable than others, yet the underlying neural mechanisms of memorability are not fully understood. In this study, we introduce a novel framework, ``MemBrainGen'', that connects memorability, a behaviorally defined feature of images, with the human brain responses, employing a generative model to investigate how the human brain processes images based on their memorability. We employed fMRI responses to images, advanced deep neural network (DNN) and generative adversarial network (GAN) models to explore the signature of image memorability across visual and memory regions of the human brain. MemBrainGen enables exploring how brain responses vary when the memorability of an image is either increased or decreased excluding semantic influences. Using the framework, we successfully manipulated the memorability of natural images in both increasing and decreasing directions, and observed that early visual regions except for V1 showed no difference in response to memorability changes. However, brain regions associated with face and body categories, and the amygdala exhibited increased predicted activation when image memorability was increased. Most notably, V1 and place-associated regions showed lower predicted activation when images with increased memorability were presented to the model. This demonstrates the potential of integrating generative models with neuroimaging to explore the causal links between brain functions and behaviour, paving the way for the formulation of experimentally testable hypotheses.
